the tropical Sun burns off the Niles
shallow waters leaving a shifting mosaic
of pools and new grassland now it's time
for the Dinko to return but others fare
less well as the Landry emerges this
catfish could easily find itself
stranded but it has a curious ability
that might just save it if it can't swim
it'll craw
specially adapted fins allow the catfish
to walk on its elbows like the lungfish
it can also breathe air it may have to
perform this trick many times as its
habitable world gets smaller by the day
meanwhile the cob are on the move again
their world is expanding rapidly as the
floodwaters recede a huge green carpet
of new grass rolls out before them this
explains how the suit can support such
massive odds
it is this the same flood and fertility
that sustained ancient Egypt there's no
doubt that the White Nile has enough
water and nutrients to completely
transform the suit but the great Marsh
holds on to its riches it soaks up the
water like a massive sponge and the
labyrinth of papyrus traps any sediment
despite a great influx of water the
flood goes no further north the flow of
the White Nile out of the suit changes
little through the year